
1 V
1.1 The `move' group
	These verbs are concerned with moving or being somewhere. This includes:
1.2 The `turn' group
	These verbs indicate that someone or something changes posture, arrangement, or orientation, but does not move from one place to another. This includes:
1.3 The `leave' group
	These verbs are concerned with leaving a place, position, or situation. We include here want out, which indicates that someone wants to escape from a situation. With these verbs, the place, position, or situation involved must usually have been mentioned or indicated.
1.4 The `hang around' group
	These verbs are concerned with waiting, not doing much, or not acting.
1.5 The `join in' group
	These verbs are concerned with getting involved in an activity or situation. The activity or situation must usually have been mentioned or indicated.
1.6 The `compete' group
	These verbs are concerned with being involved in a competition of some kind. The competition must usually have been mentioned or indicated.
1.7 The `carry on' group
	These verbs are concerned with continuing to do something, or doing something you have planned. The activity or project involved must have been mentioned or indicated.
1.8 The `back out' group
	These verbs are concerned with not doing something you had planned or promised to do, or being reluctant to get involved in something. The activity or situation involved must have been mentioned or indicated.
1.9 The `change' group
	These verbs are concerned with changing. This includes:
1.10 The `benefit' group
	These verbs indicate that something happens to the Subject or is done to the Subject. For example, if a city falls, it is captured by an enemy. This includes something being learned about, perceived, or found. For example, if news gets out, it becomes known; if the sun comes out, clouds move away from it and it becomes visible. We include here wait: if you say that something can wait, you mean you will not deal with it until later.
1.11 The `matter' group
	These verbs indicate that someone or something has a particular quality or is in a particular state. This includes:
1.12 The `succeed' and `fail' group
	These verbs are concerned with being successful, failing, or coping. The Subject may be human or inanimate. We include here verbs such as hold and fall down, which indicate how successful an argument or theory is. We also include go down 4, go up, move down, and move up, which indicate that someone or something moves to a lower or higher rank.
1.13 The `operate' group
	These verbs indicate that something such as a machine, substance, or organization functions.
1.14 The `start' and `break' group
	These verbs indicate that something such as a machine, object, or organization starts to function, or ceases to function or exist. We include here verbs indicating that someone dies.
1.15 The `begin' and `stop' group
	These verbs are concerned with beginning or stopping. They can be divided into two groups.
1.16 The `occur' group
	These verbs indicate that something exists or happens. This includes:
1.17 The `come back' group
	These verbs indicate that a type of thing becomes popular or stops being popular. We include here date, which indicates that something comes to be regarded as old-fashioned.
1.18 The `think' and `watch' group
	These verbs are concerned with thinking, perceiving, and paying attention. The thing or matter involved must usually have been mentioned or indicated.
1.19 The `speak' group
	These verbs are concerned with saying something. The thing or matter involved must usually have been mentioned or indicated. We include here break in and cut in, which indicate that someone interrupts someone else.
1.20 The `call' group
	These verbs are concerned with visiting, phoning, or writing to someone. The person involved must have been mentioned or indicated.
1.21 The `ring' group
	These verbs indicate that something makes a sound.
1.22 The `laugh' group
	These verbs indicate that someone makes a sound or puts on an expression, or that someone's body does something involuntarily.
1.23 The `knock' group
	These verbs are concerned with hitting, holding, or exerting force on something. The thing involved must have been mentioned or indicated.
1.24 Verbs with other meanings
	There are many other verbs with this pattern. They can be divided into three groups.

2 V n
Structure I: Verb with Complement
2.I.1 The `be' group
	These verbs indicate that a person or thing is something. They are all link verbs (see Chapter 5). We include here verbs such as comprise 2 and make up, where the Subject indicates the parts, members, or elements of something, and comprise 1, where the Complement indicates the parts of something.
2.I.2 The `become' group
	These verbs indicate that a person or thing becomes something. They are all link verbs (see Chapter 5).
2.I.3 The `seem' group
	These verbs indicate that a person or thing seems to be something. The verb feel indicates how someone seems to themselves. They are all link verbs (see Chapter 5).
2.I.4 The `act' group
	These verbs indicate that someone behaves like a kind of person they are not. They are both link verbs (see Chapter 5). The noun group after the verb always begins with the.
2.I.5 The `depart' group
	These verbs are concerned with living, dying, or leaving somewhere. The Complement describes the condition or situation of the Subject during his or her life or at the time of dying or leaving.  This is a productive use. The verbs listed here are the ones which are most frequently used in this way.
Structure II: Verb with Object
2.II.1 The `kill', `eat', and `fix' groups
	These verbs are concerned with a concrete action or event which changes or affects the person or thing indicated by the Object. They can be divided into eight groups:
(i) The `kill' group
	These verbs are concerned with harming, breaking, attacking, or destroying something or someone. We include here abandon, which indicates that someone is harmed by being left by someone.
(ii) The `touch' group
	These verbs are concerned with touching something. We include here avoid, which indicates that something is not touched, and get off, which is used to tell someone to stop touching you.
(iii) The `eat' group
	These verbs are concerned with consuming something, or not consuming something.
(iv) The `prepare' group
	These verbs are concerned with preparing something for use.
(v) The `fix' group
	These verbs are concerned with mending something that is not in good condition. We include here bring round and bring to, which indicate that an unconscious person is returned to consciousness.
(vi) The `change' group
	These verbs are concerned with making something different in some other way. This includes:
(vii) The `feed' group
	These verbs are concerned with giving something to someone. The Object is the person who receives the thing given.
(viii) The `protect' group
	These verbs are concerned with doing something concrete to help or protect someone or something.
2.II.2 The `bring', `buy', and `operate' groups
	These verbs are concerned with concrete or abstract actions which involve moving or holding something, physically or metaphorically, or with operating machinery or a vehicle. They can be divided into three groups:
(i) The `bring' group
	These verbs are concerned with moving or holding something. This includes:
(ii) The `buy' group
	These verbs are concerned with changes in ownership or possession. This includes:
(iii) The `operate' group
	These verbs are concerned with operating machinery or vehicles.
2.II.3 The `cover', `follow', and `record' groups
	These verbs are concerned with a concrete action or event which does not change or affect the person or thing indicated by the Object, but where the Object is involved in the action or event. They can be divided into five groups:
(i) The `cover' group
	These verbs are concerned with moving something so that it is on, under, or around the Object, or so that it is no longer in that position. The person or thing indicated by the Object is not moved or changed, although it is covered, revealed, or supported. We also include here cover 2,3, hide, support, and surround, where the Subject indicates the thing that is over, under, or around the Object.
(ii) The `meet' group
	These verbs are concerned with meeting or getting to know someone, or visiting someone or a place. We include here lay, go with, and sleep with, which mean `have sex with', and avoid, which is concerned with deliberately not meeting someone.
(iii) The `follow' group
	These verbs are concerned with going in a particular direction or to or from a particular place. The Object indicates a direction, a place, a road, or a person who is in a particular place.
(iv) The `record' group
	These verbs are concerned with recording, measuring, indicating, or copying something or someone.
(v) The `use' group
	These verbs are concerned with using something.
2.II.4 The `build' group
	These verbs are concerned with a concrete action or event which creates something or brings it into being.
2.II.5 The `change', `concern', and `arrange' groups
	These verbs are concerned with an abstract action or event which changes or affects the person or thing indicated by the Object. They can be divided into nine groups:
(i) The `change' group
	These verbs are concerned with doing something abstract that makes the Object different.
(ii) The `end' group
	These verbs are concerned with bringing a situation to an end. With some verbs, such as end, the Object is the situation itself. With other verbs, such as open up (a border), the verb and the Object together indicate a situation that is brought to an end.
(iii) The `beat an illness' group
	These verbs are concerned with improving a bad situation, solving a problem, or surviving an unpleasant situation.
(iv) The `concern' group
	These verbs are concerned with someone being affected, usually negatively, by something.  The Subject is usually inanimate and the Object is usually a person or a group of people.
(v) The `help' group
	These verbs are concerned with doing something abstract to benefit someone or something.
(vi) The `control' group
	These verbs are concerned with having a particular role in an organization or among a group of people. This role is usually controlling or leading.
(vii) The `beat' group
	These verbs are concerned with competition. The Subject indicates one competitor, the Object indicates another.
(viii) The `call out' group
	These verbs are concerned with making someone go somewhere or behave in a certain way. The Object indicates the person or people affected.
(ix)  The `arrange' group
	These verbs are concerned with making different not the Object itself but the circumstances surrounding the Object. This includes:
2.II.6 The `watch', `break a record', and `approve' groups
	These verbs are concerned with an abstract action or event which does not change or affect the person or thing indicated by the Object. They can be divided into seven groups:
(i) The `watch' group
	These verbs are concerned with directed mental activity.
(ii) The `break a record' group
	These verbs focus on the fact that the Subject achieves success. We include here buy (time), make 3.7, and sell (a product), which indicate that the Subject contributes to the success of something else.
(iii) The `win' group
	These verbs are concerned with winning, losing, or taking part in a competition. The Object indicates the competition or the thing that is won or lost.
(iv) The `approve' group
	These verbs are concerned with the practical demonstration of approval or disapproval.
(v) The `answer' group
	These verbs are concerned with responding or reacting to something.
(vi) The `count against' group
	These verbs are concerned with making people think of someone or something in a particular way. The Object indicates the person or thing that is thought of.
(vii) Verbs with other meanings
	These verbs are concerned with a wide range of other abstract actions. The Object is the focus or target of the action, but it is not directly affected by the action.
2.II.7 The `form' group
	These verbs are concerned with an abstract action or event which creates something or brings something into being. The Object indicates the thing that is created.
2.II.8 The `start' and `stop' group
	These verbs and Objects together indicate that an activity is started, finished, or carried out in a particular way. This includes:
2.II.9 The `do' and `take', `turn a corner', and `open your eyes' groups
	These verbs are concerned with both concrete and abstract actions and events. The verbs and the Objects do not indicate separate entities; the verb and the Object together express the action or event. They can be divided into three groups:
(i) The `do' and `take' group
	These verbs and Objects are not separable and it is not possible to replace the Objects by pronouns. For example, it does not make sense to say `they wanted a verdict so we 42  returned it', or `he offered me a sip and I took it'. This means that the clause does not focus attention on what is done to the Object but on what the Subject does, or on something that happens to the Subject.  The verb and the Object together describe an action by the Subject.
(ii) The `turn a corner' group
	The verbs and Objects in this group are not competely separable. The Objects can be replaced by pronouns, but as with the verbs in the preceding group the clause does not focus attention on what is done to the Object but on what the Subject does. For example, it does not make sense to ask `What did the baby cut?' or `What did the baby do to the tooth?' but only `What did the baby do?'  or `Did the baby cut a tooth?'
(iii) The `open your eyes' group
	These verbs are concerned with actions done with and to your own body.
2.II.10 The `face', `take three days', and `see' groups
	These verbs and Objects together are concerned with place or time. They can be divided into three groups:
(i) The `face' group
	The verb and the Object together indicate place or extent. This includes:
(ii) The `take three days' group
	The verb and the Object together indicate a point in time, the duration of something, or a sequence of events.
(iii) The `next week sees' group
	These verbs indicate that an action, state, or event occurs. The Subject indicates a time or place, the Object indicates an action, state, or event. We include here go into, where the Subject indicates the length of time required to achieve the Object.
2.II.11 The `top', `develop', and `include' groups
	These verbs and Objects together give information about the qualities, attributes, or role of the Subject. They can be divided into three groups:
(i) The `top' group
	These verbs and Objects indicate how good, big, or important something or someone is. We include here (cannot) beat, which indicates how good the Object is, and buy and cover, which indicate that an amount of money is enough to pay for something.
(ii) The `develop' group
	These verbs and Objects indicate what something or someone has, what they are like, or what they become. This includes:
(iii) The `include' group
	These verbs and Objects indicate what something contains or is about.
2.II.12 The `show', `allow', and `identify' groups
	These verbs indicate a logical relation between the inanimate Subject and the Object. They can be divided into three groups:
(i) The `show' group
	The thing indicated by the Subject provides evidence for the truth of the fact indicated by the Object. We include here bear out, where the Object is a person who has said something, rather than the thing they have said.
(ii) The `allow' group
	The thing indicated by the Subject:
(iii) The `identify' group
	The Subject and the Object are associated with each other in people's minds. This includes:
2.II.13 The `hear', `interest', and `give an impression' groups
	These verbs, or verbs and Objects together, are concerned with processes that take place in the mind, such as thinking, perceiving, or feeling. They can be divided into four groups:
(i) The `hear' group
	The Subject indicates a person or something that shares certain characteristics with a person, such as a radio receiver which can `hear'. The Object indicates something that is thought, perceived, or felt. This includes:
(ii) The `interest' group
	The Object indicates a person. The Subject usually indicates the person or thing that makes the Object think or feel in a particular way. With some verbs, the Object indicates something such as someone's attention.
(iii) The `give an impression' group
	The Object indicates an idea or feeling. The Subject indicates the reason for that idea or feeling.
(iv) The `eyes follow' group
	The Subject indicates someone's eyes. The Object indicates a person or thing that is watched or seen.
2.II.14 The `say', `describe', and `call' groups
	These verbs are concerned with communication, especially speaking or writing. They can be divided into three groups:
(i) The `say' group
	The Object indicates what is said or written. The verb and the Object together indicate the process of speaking or writing. This includes:
(ii) The `describe' group
	The Object indicates the topic or content of the communication.
(iii) The `call' group
	The Object indicates the hearer or reader.
Structure III: Verb with Adjunct
be V-ed by n
get V-ed
V colour

3 V pl-n
3.1 The `combine' and `separate' group
	These verbs are concerned with joining, combining, or separating two or more things, either physically or metaphorically. We include here clink, which is concerned with making two or more things touch, and line up, which is concerned with arranging two or more things in relation to each other.
3.2 The `compare' group
	These verbs are concerned with seeing a similarity, difference, or connection between two or more things.
3.3 The `alternate' group
	These verbs are concerned with making a connection between two things or activities. This includes:
3.4 The `introduce' and `come between' group
	These verbs are concerned with making or breaking a relationship between two or more people.

4 V pron-refl
4.1 The `hang' group
	These verbs are concerned with doing physical harm to yourself. This includes:
4.2 The `flaunt' group
	These verbs are concerned with a person's self-image. In most cases, the person involved has a better self-image than he or she deserves, or is trying to make a better impression than he or she deserves. This includes:
4.3 The `demean' group
	These verbs are concerned with doing harm to your dignity, freedom, or image.
4.4 The `exert' group
	These verbs are concerned with doing something with a great deal of effort, enthusiasm, or commitment.
4.5 The `compose' group
	These verbs are concerned with controlling, or failing to control, your feelings or behaviour. This includes:
4.6 The `delude' group
	These verbs are concerned with having the wrong idea about something.
4.7 The `excel' group
	These verbs are concerned with being successful, becoming successful, or showing yourself to be successful.
4.8 The `explain' group
	These verbs are concerned with talking, often about yourself.
4.9 The `occupy' group
	These verbs are concerned with occupying time.
4.10 The `stretch out' group
	These verbs are concerned with moving your body, doing an action involving your body, or changing your position.
4.11 The `reproduce' group
	These verbs are concerned with reproduction.
4.12 The `enjoy' group
	These verbs are concerned with enjoying yourself or treating yourself well.
4.13 The `hide' group
	These verbs are concerned with hiding or keeping away from other people.
4.14 The `absent' group
	These verbs are concerned with leaving somewhere or not being somewhere.
4.15 The `present' group
	These verbs are concerned with something happening. This includes:
4.16 Verbs with other meanings
	There are a number of other verbs which have this pattern.

5 V amount
Structure I: Verb with Complement
5.I.1 The `equal' group
	These verbs are used when indicating how big an amount is. They are all link verbs (see Chapter 5).
5.I.2 The `measure' group
	These verbs are used when indicating the size or weight of something or someone. They are all link verbs (see Chapter 5).
Structure II: Verb with Object
5.II.1 The `pay' group
	These verbs are concerned with financial transactions such as buying, selling, or earning a living.
5.II.2 The `hold' group
	These verbs are concerned with the capacity of something.
5.II.3 The `do' group
	These verbs are concerned with the speed of something.
5.II.4 The `gain' and `lose' group
	These verbs are concerned with gaining or losing something.
5.II.5 Verbs with other meanings
	There are a few other verbs which have this structure. We include here average, which can indicate how much someone or something gets or produces. It can also indicate the speed or price of something, and is included in meaning groups II.1 and II.3 above.
Structure III: Verb with Adjunct
5.III.1 The `increase' group
	These verbs are concerned with changes in value, amount, or degree.
5.III.2 The `walk' group
	These verbs are concerned with moving or travelling. The amount indicates the distance travelled. This is a productive use: most verbs which involve moving or travelling can be used with this pattern. The verbs listed here are those which are most frequently used in this way.
5.III.3 The `win' group
	These verbs are concerned with winning or losing. The amount indicates the score.
5.III.4 Verbs with other meanings
	There are a few other verbs which have this structure.
V amount adj/adv
V amount in n

6 V adj
6.1 The `be' group
	These verbs indicate that someone or something has a particular quality or is in a particular state. We include here keep, remain, and stay, which indicate that someone or something remains in a particular state. The verbs in this group are all link verbs (see Chapter 5). Keep is an ergative link verb (see Chapter 7).
6.2 The `become' group
	These verbs indicate that someone or something starts to have a particular quality or be in a particular state. They are all link verbs (see Chapter 5).
6.3 The `seem' group
	These verbs indicate that someone or something seems to have a particular quality or be in a particular state. They are all link verbs (see Chapter 5). The verb feel 1 indicates how someone seems to themselves.
6.4 The `act' group
	These verbs indicate that someone pretends to have a particular quality or be in a particular state. They are both link verbs (see Chapter 5).
6.5 The `die' group
	These verbs are concerned with actions or processes.
6.6 The `sit' group
	These verbs indicate the position or posture of someone or something.
6.7 The `stare' group
	These verbs are concerned with looking. They are used with adjectives describing the expression or emotion of the person who is looking at something.
6.8 The `slide open' group
	These verbs indicate that something such as a door moves, or makes a sound as it moves. They are used with adjectives such as open and shut.
6.9 The `break free' group
	These verbs indicate that a person manages to get free from a restraint, or that an object comes away from or out of something. They are used with free or loose.
6.10 The `jump' group
	These verbs indicate movement upwards or downwards. They are used with high or low.
6.11 The `close higher' group
	These verbs are used when talking about the level of share prices or currencies. They are used with the adjectives higher and lower. Close, end, finish, and open are also used with firmer, weaker, and unchanged. These verbs are all link verbs (see Chapter 5).
6.12 The `gleam' group
	These verbs indicate that something gives out or reflects light. They are used with adjectives indicating colour, and with adjectives such as bright and clear. We include here run, which is used when indicating the appearance of a liquid.
6.13 The `set' group
	These verbs indicate that something becomes solid. They are used with solid or hard.
6.14 Verbs with other meanings
	There are a number of other verbs which have this pattern. With the exception of dawn and wax, they are used with only one or two adjectives, as indicated in the list below.
V adj prep
V amount adj
V colour
V -ed
7 V -ing 
Structure I: Verbs in phase
7.I.1 The `start' and 'stop' group
	These verbs are concerned with starting, stopping, continuing, or doing an action.
7.I.2 The `avoid' group
	These verbs are concerned with not doing an action.
7.I.3 The `try' group
	These verbs are concerned with doing something even though it may be dangerous or may not bring success.
7.I.4 The `go riding' group
	These verbs are concerned with taking part in an activity, often shopping or a leisure activity.
Structure II: Verb with Object
7.II.1 The `like' and `dislike' group
	These verbs are concerned with liking or disliking something.
7.II.2 The `dread' and `look forward to' group
	These verbs are concerned with attitudes towards the future. This includes:
7.II.3 The `consider' group
	These verbs are concerned with ideas about what is going to happen in the future.
7.II.4 The `remember' group
	These verbs are concerned with attitudes and ideas about the past. This includes:
7.II.5 The `recommend' group
	These verbs are concerned with speaking or writing. This includes:
7.II.6 The `involve' group
	These verbs are concerned with a logical relation between two actions, events, or states. One is indicated by the Subject and one is indicated by the `-ing' clause.
7.II.7 The `postpone' group
	These verbs are concerned with postponing the time when something is done.
7.II.8 The `need' group
	These verbs are concerned with needing or deserving action or treatment of some kind.
7.II.9 The `risk' group
	These verbs are concerned with doing something that may have bad results. The `-ing' clause indicates the possible result of the action.
7.II.10 Verbs with other meanings
	There are a number of other verbs which have this structure.
Structure III: Verb with Adjunct

8 V to-inf
Structure I: Verbs in phase
8.I.1 The `begin' group
	These verbs are concerned with starting, stopping, or continuing an action.
8.I.2 The `appear' group
	These verbs are concerned with an activity being real or appearing to be real. We include here make, which indicates that someone appears to be about to do something, but does not do it.
8.I.3 The `try' group
	These verbs are concerned with trying to achieve something.
8.I.4 The `manage' group
	These verbs emphasize that something is successfully done, especially something that is difficult or easily forgotten.
8.I.5 The `fail' group
	These verbs are concerned with not doing an action. We include here remain, which indicates that something has not yet been dealt with, and (not) need, which has this structure when it is used to tell somebody not to do something.
8.I.6 The `regret to say' group
	These verbs are concerned with the manner or attitude of the person doing the action. We include here choose, elect, and opt, which have this structure when they are used to indicate that someone does something by choice. We also include here hate, want, and wish which have this structure when they are used in phrases such as I hate to be rude but...
8.I.7 The `hasten' group
	These verbs are concerned with doing something without delay.
8.I.8 The `chance' group
	These verbs are concerned with something happening by chance.
8.I.9 The `tend' group
	These verbs are concerned with how probable something is or how frequently something happens.
8.I.10 Verbs with other meanings
	There are a few other verbs which have this structure.
Structure II: Verb with Object
8.II.1 The `promise' group
	These verbs are concerned with being committed to a future action. This includes:
8.II.2 The `demand' group
	These verbs are concerned with persuading someone to do something or with obtaining permission from someone to do something.
8.II.3 The `hope' group
	These verbs are concerned with attitudes towards a future action or event. This includes:
8.II.4 The `like' group
	These verbs are concerned with liking or disliking something.
8.II.5 The `claim' group
	These verbs are concerned with saying that something is true when it may not be.
8.II.6 The `need' group
	These verbs are concerned with needing or deserving to do something or to have something done.
8.II.7 Verbs with other meanings
	There are two other verbs which have this structure.
Structure III: Verb with Adjunct
8.III.1 The `collaborate' group
	These verbs are concerned with reaching an agreement or doing something jointly with someone else. The verbs in this group are reciprocal verbs and in this pattern they have a plural Subject. (See Chapter 6.)
8.III.2 The `flock' group
	These verbs are concerned with going somewhere in order to do something.
8.III.3 The `vie' group
	These verbs are concerned with doing something in competition with other people. The verbs in this group are reciprocal verbs (see Chapter 6) and in this pattern have a plural Subject.
8.III.4 The `wait' group
	These verbs are concerned with waiting to do something.
8.III.5 The `qualify' group
	These verbs are concerned with preparing for a job or activity.
8.III.6 The `pay' and `charge' group
	These verbs are concerned with paying to do something or charging someone to do something.
8.III.7 The `wake' group
	These verbs are concerned with waking. The to-infinitive indicates what happens at the time of waking.
8.III.8 Verbs with other meanings
	There are a number of other verbs which have this structure.

9 V inf
9.1 The `come' and `go' group
	These verbs indicate that the action indicated by the second verb is done. Only the base forms of the verbs, come and go, are used in this pattern, and only in American English.
9.2 The `dare' and `need' group
	These verbs are concerned with daring or needing to do something.
9.3 Verbs with other meanings
	There is one other verb which has this pattern.

10 V that
1.1 The `say' group
	These verbs are concerned with speaking, writing, and other forms of communication. They indicate what kind of function the speech or writing is performing. This includes:
1.2 The `add' group
	These verbs indicate the relationship of something that is said or written to something else that has been said or written. This includes:
1.3 The `scream' group
	These verbs indicate how something is said, for example how loudly or at what pitch.
1.4 The `think' group
	These verbs are concerned with thinking. This includes:
1.5 The `discover' group
	These verbs are concerned with coming to know or think something. We include here verbs which indicate that someone remembers something they had forgotten or not thought about for some time.
1.6 The `check' group
	These verbs are concerned with checking something you believe is true.
1.7 The `show' group
	These verbs are concerned with indicating a fact or situation. These verbs usually have an inanimate Subject.
1.8 The `arrange' group
	These verbs are concerned with causing something to happen. This includes:
1.9 The `go' group
	These verbs are used when you are quoting something. We include here say 6, which you use when indicating the information given by something such as a clock or a map. These verbs have an inanimate Subject.
1.10 Verbs with other meanings
	There are a number of other verbs which have this pattern.
Omitting that
Words in inverted commas
Should or subjunctive in that-clause
Indicating the speaker's intention
V the fact that
V into n that
V on/upon n that
V to n that
V with n that

11 V wh
1.1 The `ask' group
	These verbs are concerned with speaking or writing. This includes:
1.2 The `think' group
	These verbs are concerned with thinking about something. This includes:
1.3 The `discover' group
	These verbs are concerned with coming to know something or bringing something to mind. This includes:
1.4 The `show' group
	These verbs are concerned with showing that a situation exists or showing what it is like.
1.5 The `determine' group
	These verbs are concerned with influencing a situation.
1.6 Verbs with other meanings
	There are two other verbs which have this pattern.
V of n wh
V on/upon n wh
V to n wh

12 V wh-to-inf
1.1 The `describe' group
	These verbs are concerned with showing or telling someone how to do something. The Subject is usually a person or something that has been written, but in the case of indicate, it may also be an experiment.
1.2 The `discover' group
	These verbs are concerned with finding out how to do something or whether to do something.
1.3 The `decide' group
	These verbs are concerned with thinking or talking about how to do something or whether to do something.
1.4 The `remember' group
	These verbs are concerned with knowing, remembering, forgetting, and understanding what to do or how to do something. With most of the verbs in this group the to-infinitive is most frequently introduced by how or what, but in the case of know, it is sometimes also introduced by whether.

13 V with quote
The Subject, Verb, and Clause can be arranged in five different ways.
	Note that the only verb that is frequently used with the pattern V with quote in conversation is say, as shown in the example in meaning group 1 below.
The Subject, Verb, and Clause can be arranged in the same five ways as for verbs with the pattern V with quote. One way is shown below.
	Note that the only verb that is frequently used with the pattern V with quote in conversation is say, as shown in the example in meaning group 1 below.
1.1 The `say' group
	These verbs are concerned with speaking, writing, and other forms of communication. They indicate what kind of function the speech or writing is performing. We include here read 1 which indicates that someone understands something written.
1.2 The `add' group
	These verbs indicate the relationship of something that is said or written to something else that has been said or written. This includes:
1.3 The `scream' group
	These verbs indicate how something is said, for example how loudly or quickly, or at what pitch. Some verbs, such as wail and rasp, also indicate the feeling that the speaker has (see also meaning group 5 below).
1.4 The `gasp' group
	These verbs are used to express speech accompanied by an expression, gesture, or non-verbal sound. They are usually used in fiction rather than in journalism or conversation.
1.5 The `sneer' group
	These verbs indicate the feeling expressed or felt by the person speaking, for example anger, enthusiasm, surprise, scorn, or unhappiness. Many of these verbs also indicate the way that something is said, to some extent.
1.6 The `think' group
	These verbs are concerned with thinking. Sometimes quotation marks are not used around the quote clause.
1.7 The `go' group
	These verbs are used when quoting a piece of writing or something such as a song or poem. They have an inanimate Subject.
V after n with quote
V at n with quote
V of n with quote
V to n with quote
V with sound
V as quote

14 V so/not
1.Verbs with other meanings
	There is one verb, do, which does not fit into the above meaning group. This has the affirmative do so only - the negative is formed with an auxiliary or modal.

15 V as if, V as though
1.1 The `look' group
	These verbs are used to indicate how someone or something seems. They are all link verbs (see Chapter 5). The verb feel indicates how someone seems to themselves. The clause after the verb indicates a situation that would make someone or something have the qualities they appear to have.
1.2 The `act' group
	These verbs are concerned with behaving or speaking.  The clause indicates a situation in which the behaviour or what is said would be expected or appropriate.
V as if to-inf

16 V and v
Structure I: Verbs in phase
Structure II: Co-ordinated verbs
